# Problem 12: Highly divisible triangular number

## Problem statement

The sequence of triangle numbers is generated by adding the natural numbers. So the 7th triangle number would be 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 + 7 = 28. The first ten terms would be:

1, 3, 6, 10, 15, 21, 28, 36, 45, 55, ...

Let us list the factors of the first seven triangle numbers:

     1: 1
     3: 1,3
     6: 1,2,3,6
    10: 1,2,5,10
    15: 1,3,5,15
    21: 1,3,7,21
    28: 1,2,4,7,14,28

We can see that 28 is the first triangle number to have over five divisors.

What is the value of the first triangle number to have over five hundred divisors?

## Comments

Again, I've had to take too long between these problems, so I've been
thinking about this one. I think what I'll do is develop a seive-like
structure to find the powers of different primes that go into
different numbers, and then look for a number such that `n*(n-1)/2`
has more than five hundred divisors. (then the answer is `n*(n-1)/2)`)

Given that a number is `p1^n1 * p2^n2 * ... * pk^nk`, then it has
`(n1+1)*(n2+1)*...*(nk+1)` divisors.

This will probably involve using the itertools crate for the `fold1`
function, so that's something new.

...

As predicted, I used `fold1`. As might not be too surprising, I also
hit my head against integer type mixups here too.

I am getting into some type issues that I don'[t understand - in this
problem I wound up using a `&mut [&mut [u8]]`, which looks a bit
strange to me and I don't know what's going on there with that. (but
it was what the compiler asked me to use, so...)



## Source

[Source code](https://github.com/fizbin/pe100challenge/blob/master{{page.url}}src/main.rs)
